# Issues!

So this page was originally just a test page to resolve my first issue in the blog. As transparency is going to play a big part in my work I want to show what problems I've faced and how I've solved them where possible.

## Context

I've set this blog up thanks to the awesome work of Chad Baldwin via [this link](https://chadbaldwin.net/2021/03/14/how-to-build-a-sql-blog.html) and hosted on GitHub Pages. I created the repo from template and published my first post yesterday with no issues at all. 

## The problem

Late last night I was drafting a new blog post about the Azure Cloud Shell, which I did not yet want to publish. I had this saved in the _posts folder of my repo, but as it was not yet ready to publish I set the title as 2022-xx-xx-the-azure-cloud-shell.md, assuming (due to the inbuilt logic of the web template displaying the publications in date order) that it wouldn't show up at all.

I then wanted to edit my previous post from earlier in the day with some more information. Not having a mechanism to selectively push the repo with just the edit I decided to publish the new post as-is and assumed I could rectify it later. I pushed the repo, the actions ran in GitHub and.. nothing happened. The new post did not show, but neither did the edits to my exist post. I changed the draft post to the correct date formatting and tried again. Nothing. I scratched my head for 20 minutes and went to bed.

## The resolution

I don't think my actions really caused anything to break, though it would be interesting to see if not naming the 'new' post I was publishing '2022-xx-xx-etc..' and just using the correct date would have kept everything working fine. I suspect it might have. I published a new post this morning as a test, and could see that the posts were displaying fine under 'blog archive'. I remembered seeing this issue in the comments on the original [link](https://chadbaldwin.net/2021/03/14/how-to-build-a-sql-blog.html) so swiftly followed the proposed resolution and hey presto - everything was working fine! Covered under GitHub issue [#1](https://github.com/explodinghat/explodinghat.github.io/issues/1)

## Where do we go from here?

Well, let's start by not publishing draft articles with dodgy titles that break how the site functions shall we? I've added a new _drafts folder into the repo. Is this ideal? No, anyone with the right determination and nothing better to do will be able to see all my in-progress articles before they're ready for the world to see if they know where to look. Do I really care? Not that much. 

No idea at this point if the push that adds the _drafts folder into the repo will break everything again or not, if you're reading this then it hasn't (or it did and I've figured out how to fix it) - nothing like testing in production right? 